So let's work on that modal.
For that in the UI folder, I'll add a modal JS file.
And that hatched unsurprisingly,
you find this styling file for this modal,
the modal module CSS file.
And then here we have that modal, which will receive props.
And of course we export this component, like this.
And then here, we can also import classes
from dot slash modal dot module dot CSS,
and then work on the markup for this modal.
And here I will have a special markup kind of
because I wanna use React Portal for both my backdrop.
So that thing behind the modal overlay
which blocks interaction with the rest of the page.
And I also wanna render the modal overlay itself
with React Portal to use that component wherever I want
by to render the actual HTML elements
in a specific place in the DOM tree.
That is something you learned about
earlier in the course Portals.
And to render a Portal, we first of all need to go
to the public folder and they are the index HTML file.
And here we got this root div where the overall
React application is being rendered.
And above that route div,
I will add a number div with an ID of over lace.
And that is the div where I wanna Portal my modal
and the backdrop too.
So that is a change we need to make to any HTML.
And with that back in the modal JS file
we can create the backdrop
and the overlay and then use the Portal.
Now it will create two separate components for debt.
And since they are really closely tied
to this modal component and both very lean
I will treat them here in the same file.
But if you go for a separate files
that of course would also be fine.
But I will add the backdrop
component function here in this file.
And then also the modal overlay component function
and both received props because both will receive data.
Now for the backdrop, we return a div with a class name
of classes dot backdrop using that backdrop CSS class
which is defined in the modal module CSS file.
And for the overlay, I will return a div
the class name off clauses dot modal.
And inside of that, I'll have a number div
with a class name of Classes dot content.
I simply have these two devs for styling purposes.
And then inside of that inner div I'll put prompts children.
So in the end, this will be the actual content passed
between the modal opening and closing tax by it
a component where the modal is getting used.
It won't work right now, but it will work in the future.
So now we got these components
now here in the modal function which is the main component
which is being exported here.
We now of course all need to return some markup.
And there, I wanna have backdrop and overlay site by site.
And for this we'll need the fragment.
So I'll import fragment from React
and then simply return fragment.
And in there now backdrop and modal overlay
and this is how we could do it, or actually modal overlay
like this to forward the content between the modal tech.
But this is how we could do it
if we would not be using the Portal.
Now we technically don't have to use a Portal
but to ensure that our HTML code is not all over the place
in the final application, I will use Portals here.
And therefore I will output two dynamic expressions here.
Side-by-side and that will call the create Portal method
which is built into React in both these expressions.
For div we need to import it
and it is actually important or it is a way liable
on the React DOM object from React dash DOM.
So not the React library itself, but the React DOM library
which of course also is by the React team though.
And with this import add a day offer
we can access React on create Portal
and create a Portal for the backdrop
and do the same down there.
React on webs, React on create Portal for the modal overlay.
And here we need to pass props children
between the opening and closing tax.
So that in the modal overlaid that can be used.
Now create Portal needs a second argument though.
It does not just need to know what to Portal
but also where to Portal it.
And the effort we should select is div here
with the idea overlays in our index HTML file.
Now, since we will need that in both creative Portal calls
I will create a help or constant here,
which I'll name Portal element.
Obviously the name is up to you
and here we can access document get element by ID
overlays to get access to that overlay stiff.
And then it's this Portal element, which I pass
as a second argument to both create Portal calls.
And that's not a finished code for debt modal
at least for now.
And with that code, we can go back
to the cart component and there replaced
that wrapping div with modal.
Like this, obviously for div we need to import the modal
component first though.
So import modal from going up one level UI modal
not from the CSS Faldo, but from the JS file.
And then we can use modal as our opening and closing tack.
And to see this in action now
we need to use that card component somewhere
and I will use it in the app JS file.
So here I will now import cart
from dot slash components cart
and then the cart JS file like this,
and then maybe above the header,
the exact position doesn't matter too much
since we use a modal with a Portal anyways
but here I will then add cart,
not card, but cart like this.
And if he saved us, we should have this cart modal here.
Now at the moment it's always there
and we can't make it disappear
but that is something we're going to add next
because of course it shouldn't always be there.
It should be data when the, your cart button is clicked.
And of course it should also be closable.
And that is definitely also something you
can try implementing on your own
but of course we're going to do it together
in the next lecture.